# OS-Job-Scheduler-Simulator
- Thomas Truong

## Description
- Simulating Job Scheduler of the Operating Systems by programming the following four scheduling algorithms that we covered in the class:
  1. First-Come-First-Serve (FCFS)
  2. Shortest-Job-First (SJF)
  3. Round-Robin with Time Slice = 2 (RR-2)
  4. Round-Robin with Time Slice = 5 (PR-5)
- You can use either Java or your choice of programming language for the implementation.
- Output the details of each algorithm’s execution.
  - You need to show which jobs are selected at what times as well as their starting and stopping burst values.
  - You can choose your display format, for examples, you can display the results of each in Schedule Table or Gantt Chart format (as shown in the class notes).
- The program will read process burst times from a file (job.txt) – this file will be generated by you. Note that
you need to generate multiple testing cases (with inputs of 5 jobs, 10 jobs and 15 jobs). A sample input file of
five jobs is given as follows (burst time in ms):
  ```
  Job1
  7
  Job2
  18
  Job3
  10
  Job4
  4
  Job5
  12
  ```
- Note: you can assume that
  1. There are no more than 30 jobs in the input file (job.txt).
  2. Processes arrive in the order they are read from the file for FCFS, RR-2 and RR-5.
  3. All jobs arrive at time 0.
  4. FCFS uses the order of the jobs, Job1, Job2, Job3, ...
- You can implement the algorithms in your choice of data structures based on the program language of your choice.
  - Note that you always try your best to give the most efficient program for each problem.

## Requirements
- [Python3](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/)

## Usage
### Unix
  1. Change to ./src directory: `cd src`.
  2. Run any algorithm in this format: `python3 [algorithm].py [data file]`.
      - Example: `python3 round_robin1.py ../test/job.txt`.
      - Could also be `python` instead of `python3` depending on installation.
      - Can run trial with: `python3 trial_simulator.py`.
        - Edit file for different settings.
### Windows
  1. Open a terminal.
  2. Change to the `.\src` directory.
      - Same drive: `cd [Folder Location]\src`
      - Different drive: `cd /d [Folder Location]\src`
  3. Run any algorithm in this format: `python3 [algorithm].py [data file]`.
      - Example: `python3 round_robin1.py ..\test\job.txt`.
      - Could also be `python` instead of `python3` depending on installation.
      - Can run trial with: `python3 trial_simulator.py`.
        - Edit file for different settings.